book/src/call_rust_from_cpp/layout_policy.md, before:

# Layout policy

Normal Zngur usage requires explicitly declaring data layout information (size and alignment)
in order to store Rust things by value on the C++ stack.
But the layout of Rust types is not stable,
and can break when changing the compiler version,
using different compiler configurations (e.g. `-Z randomize-layout`) and on different targets.
This can make Zngur unusable for certain circumstances,
so Zngur supports different strategies (and all of them have their own drawbacks)
for storing Rust things by value in C++, called "Layout policies".

In fact, you should never use this mode of Zngur (and any other form of static assertion on size and alignment)
when you don't control the final compiler that compiles the code,
since it can break for your users in an unrecoverable state
if they can't change the `.zng` file and rebuild your code.
For example, you should never publish such a crate to crates.io,
because if everyone does that, it makes upgrading the compiler challenging and breaks the ecosystem.

In a normal Rust/C++ project where C++ is the boss, you can usually control the compiler version.
It's perfectly fine to have multiple versions of the Rust compiler in a single C++ build process,
and Rustup will make it easy for you to pick your pinned version of the compiler.
In a binary Rust project there is also no problem, since you control the final build process,
but in library Rust projects using Zngur with explicit data layout annotations for unstable types
is usually not desirable.

These are the layout policies Zngur currently supports:

## `#layout(size = X, align = Y)`

This is the normal mode,
in which you should provide the exact values of size and alignment for your type,
which enables storing them by value on the C++ stack.
This mode has the best performance, but it has the problems mentioned above.

Note that even in projects that you don't control the compiler,
you can use this mode for types that have stable size and align, such as:

- `Box<T>`, `Arc<T>`, `Rc<T>`
- `Option<&T>`
- `Vec<T>`
- `String`
- `#[repr(C)]` or `#[repr(transparent)]` structs or enums with fields with stable layout
- `[T; N]` where `T` has stable layout
- primitives

## `#layout_conservative(size = X, align = Y)`

{{#include ../unimplemented_begin.md}}1{{#include ../unimplemented_end.md}}

Using this mode you can declare a size and align greater than the real ones.
This will waste some amount of space,
but reduces the probability of breakage when upgrading the compiler.

## `#heap_allocate`

This policy allows owning Rust things without knowing their size at compile time.
For types that uses this policy,
every Rust object construction asks Rust to heap allocate a chunk of memory with appropriate size and align,
and stores data in that allocation.
This has lower performance relative to `layout` and stack allocation of objects,
but doesn't need knowing size and align at the compile time.

## `#only_by_ref`

This policy deletes the constructor of the type,
makes all by value usages of it a compile time error.
This is a subset of `#heap_allocate`, that is,
by using `#heap_allocate` and using the object only by reference you will get the same behavior.
The only point of using this instead of `#heap_allocate` is to prevent accidental invisible heap allocations.
If you don't care, use `#heap_allocate` everywhere.

## `?Sized`

Adding `?Sized` in [wellknown traits](./wellknown_traits.html) will implicitly mark the type as `#only_by_ref`.

## Example

See [`examples/rustyline`](https://github.com/HKalbasi/zngur/blob/main/examples/rustyline/main.zng)
for an example that is immune to layout breakages.

Commit message:

Update book for `#layout_conservative` and auto offset fields
Signed-off-by: Rachel Powers <508861+Ryex@users.noreply.github.com>

book/src/call_rust_from_cpp/layout_policy.md, after:

# Layout policy

Normal Zngur usage requires explicitly declaring data layout information (size and alignment)
in order to store Rust things by value on the C++ stack.
But the layout of Rust types is not stable,
and can break when changing the compiler version,
using different compiler configurations (e.g. `-Z randomize-layout`) and on different targets.
This can make Zngur unusable for certain circumstances,
so Zngur supports different strategies (and all of them have their own drawbacks)
for storing Rust things by value in C++, called "Layout policies".

In fact, you should never use this mode of Zngur (and any other form of static assertion on size and alignment)
when you don't control the final compiler that compiles the code,
since it can break for your users in an unrecoverable state
if they can't change the `.zng` file and rebuild your code.
For example, you should never publish such a crate to crates.io,
because if everyone does that, it makes upgrading the compiler challenging and breaks the ecosystem.

In a normal Rust/C++ project where C++ is the boss, you can usually control the compiler version.
It's perfectly fine to have multiple versions of the Rust compiler in a single C++ build process,
and Rustup will make it easy for you to pick your pinned version of the compiler.
In a binary Rust project there is also no problem, since you control the final build process,
but in library Rust projects using Zngur with explicit data layout annotations for unstable types
is usually not desirable.

These are the layout policies Zngur currently supports:

## `#layout(size = X, align = Y)`

This is the normal mode,
in which you should provide the exact values of size and alignment for your type,
which enables storing them by value on the C++ stack.
This mode has the best performance, but it has the problems mentioned above.

Note that even in projects that you don't control the compiler,
you can use this mode for types that have stable size and align, such as:

- `Box<T>`, `Arc<T>`, `Rc<T>`
- `Option<&T>`
- `Vec<T>`
- `String`
- `#[repr(C)]` or `#[repr(transparent)]` structs or enums with fields with stable layout
- `[T; N]` where `T` has stable layout
- primitives

## `#layout_conservative(size = X, align = Y)`

Using this mode you can declare a size and align greater than the real ones.
This will waste some amount of space,
but reduces the probability of breakage when upgrading the compiler.

Note that using [fields](./fields.md) with `#layout_conservative` usually means marking their offset as `auto`
and you are acknowledging that you do not know the real size and layout of the type.

## `#heap_allocate`

This policy allows owning Rust things without knowing their size at compile time.
For types that uses this policy,
every Rust object construction asks Rust to heap allocate a chunk of memory with appropriate size and align,
and stores data in that allocation.
This has lower performance relative to `layout` and stack allocation of objects,
but doesn't need knowing size and align at the compile time.

## `#only_by_ref`

This policy deletes the constructor of the type,
makes all by value usages of it a compile time error.
This is a subset of `#heap_allocate`, that is,
by using `#heap_allocate` and using the object only by reference you will get the same behavior.
The only point of using this instead of `#heap_allocate` is to prevent accidental invisible heap allocations.
If you don't care, use `#heap_allocate` everywhere.

## `?Sized`

Adding `?Sized` in [wellknown traits](./wellknown_traits.html) will implicitly mark the type as `#only_by_ref`.

## Example

See [`examples/rustyline`](https://github.com/HKalbasi/zngur/blob/main/examples/rustyline/main.zng)
for an example that is immune to layout breakages.
